iconv(3)                  Library Functions Manual                  iconv(3)

NAME
       iconv - perform character set conversion

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <iconv.h>

       size_t iconv(iconv_t cd,
                    char **restrict inbuf, size_t *restrict inbytesleft,
                    char **restrict outbuf, size_t *restrict outbytesleft);

DESCRIPTION
       The iconv() function converts a sequence of characters in one charac‐
       ter  encoding to a sequence of characters in another character encod‐
       ing.  The cd argument is a conversion descriptor, previously  created
       by  a  call  to  iconv_open(3); the conversion descriptor defines the
       character encodings that iconv() uses for the conversion.  The  inbuf
       argument  is the address of a variable that points to the first char‐
       acter of the input sequence;  inbytesleft  indicates  the  number  of
       bytes  in that buffer.  The outbuf argument is the address of a vari‐
       able that points to the first byte available in  the  output  buffer;
       outbytesleft  indicates  the  number of bytes available in the output
       buffer.

       The main case is when inbuf is not NULL and *inbuf is not  NULL.   In
       this  case,  the  iconv()  function  converts  the multibyte sequence
       starting at *inbuf to a multibyte sequence starting at  *outbuf.   At
       most  *inbytesleft  bytes, starting at *inbuf, will be read.  At most
       *outbytesleft bytes, starting at *outbuf, will be written.

       The iconv() function converts one multibyte character at a time,  and
       for  each  character  conversion  it increments *inbuf and decrements
       *inbytesleft by the number of converted input  bytes,  it  increments
       *outbuf  and decrements *outbytesleft by the number of converted out‐
       put bytes, and it updates the conversion state contained in  cd.   If
       the character encoding of the input is stateful, the iconv() function
       can  also  convert a sequence of input bytes to an update to the con‐
       version state without producing  any  output  bytes;  such  input  is
       called a shift sequence.  The conversion can stop for five reasons:

       •  An  invalid  multibyte  sequence  is encountered in the input.  In
          this case, it sets errno to EILSEQ and returns (size_t) -1.   *in‐
          buf is left pointing to the beginning of the invalid multibyte se‐
          quence.

       •  A  multibyte sequence is encountered that is valid but that cannot
          be translated to the character encoding of the output.  This  con‐
          dition  depends  on  the  implementation and on the conversion de‐
          scriptor.  In the GNU C library and GNU libiconv, if cd  was  cre‐
          ated  without the suffix //TRANSLIT or //IGNORE, the conversion is
          strict: lossy conversions produce this condition.  If  the  suffix
          //TRANSLIT was specified, transliteration can avoid this condition
          in some cases.  In the musl C library, this condition cannot occur
          because  a  conversion  to  '*'  is  used  as  a fallback.  In the
          FreeBSD, NetBSD, and Solaris implementations of iconv(), this con‐
          dition cannot occur either, because a conversion to '?' is used as
          a fallback.  When this condition is met,  iconv()  sets  errno  to
          EILSEQ  and  returns  (size_t) -1.  *inbuf is left pointing to the
          beginning of the unconvertible multibyte sequence.

       •  The input byte sequence has been entirely converted, that is, *in‐
          bytesleft has gone down to 0.  In this case, iconv()  returns  the
          number of nonreversible conversions performed during this call.

       •  An  incomplete multibyte sequence is encountered in the input, and
          the input byte sequence terminates after it.   In  this  case,  it
          sets  errno  to  EINVAL  and  returns (size_t) -1.  *inbuf is left
          pointing to the beginning of the incomplete multibyte sequence.

       •  The output buffer has no more room for the next converted  charac‐
          ter.    In   this  case,  it  sets  errno  to  E2BIG  and  returns
          (size_t) -1.

       A different case is when inbuf is NULL or *inbuf is NULL, but  outbuf
       is not NULL and *outbuf is not NULL.  In this case, the iconv() func‐
       tion  attempts  to set cd's conversion state to the initial state and
       store a corresponding shift  sequence  at  *outbuf.   At  most  *out‐
       bytesleft bytes, starting at *outbuf, will be written.  If the output
       buffer  has  no  more  room for this reset sequence, it sets errno to
       E2BIG and returns (size_t) -1.  Otherwise, it increments *outbuf  and
       decrements *outbytesleft by the number of bytes written.

       A  third  case is when inbuf is NULL or *inbuf is NULL, and outbuf is
       NULL or *outbuf is NULL.  In this case,  the  iconv()  function  sets
       cd's conversion state to the initial state.

RETURN VALUE
       The  iconv() function returns the number of characters converted in a
       nonreversible way during this call; reversible  conversions  are  not
       counted.   In case of error, iconv() returns (size_t) -1 and sets er‐
       rno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The following errors can occur, among others:

       E2BIG  There is not sufficient room at *outbuf.

       EILSEQ An invalid multibyte sequence has been encountered in the  in‐
              put.

       EINVAL An  incomplete  multibyte sequence has been encountered in the
              input.

ATTRIBUTES
       For an explanation of the terms used in  this  section,  see  attrib‐
       utes(7).
       ┌─────────────────────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────────────┐
       │ Interface                       │ Attribute     │ Value           │
       ├─────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────────────┤
       │ iconv()                         │ Thread safety │ MT-Safe race:cd │
       └─────────────────────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────────────┘

       The  iconv()  function is MT-Safe, as long as callers arrange for mu‐
       tual exclusion on the cd argument.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       glibc 2.1.  POSIX.1-2001.

NOTES
       In each series of calls to iconv(), the last should be one with inbuf
       or *inbuf equal to NULL, in order to flush  out  any  partially  con‐
       verted input.

       Although  inbuf  and  outbuf are typed as char **, this does not mean
       that the objects they point can be interpreted as C strings or as ar‐
       rays of characters: the interpretation of character byte sequences is
       handled internally by the conversion functions.  In some encodings, a
       zero byte may be a valid part of a multibyte character.

       The caller of iconv() must ensure that the  pointers  passed  to  the
       function  are  suitable  for  accessing characters in the appropriate
       character set.  This includes ensuring correct alignment on platforms
       that have tight restrictions on alignment.

SEE ALSO
       iconv_close(3), iconv_open(3), iconvconfig(8)

Linux man-pages 6.7              2023-10-31                         iconv(3)
