MBRUNE(3)                  Library Functions Manual                  MBRUNE(3)

NAME
     mbrune, mbrrune, mbmb - multibyte rune support for C

LIBRARY
     Standard C Library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
     #include <rune.h>

     char *
     mbrune(const char *string, rune_t rune);

     char *
     mbrrune(const char *string, rune_t rune);

     char *
     mbmb(const char *string, char *pattern);

DESCRIPTION
     The 4.4BSD "rune" functions have been deprecated in favour of the ISO C99
     extended multibyte and wide character facilities and should not be used
     in new applications.  Consider working with wide characters instead, and
     using wcschr(3), wcsrchr(3), and wcsstr(3) instead of these functions.

     These routines provide the corresponding functionality of strchr(),
     strrchr() and strstr() for multibyte strings.

     The mbrune() function locates the first occurrence of rune() in the
     string pointed to by string.  The terminating NUL character is considered
     part of the string.  If rune is `\0', mbrune() locates the terminating
     `\0'.

     The mbrrune() function locates the last occurrence of rune in the string
     string.  If rune is `\0', mbrune() locates the terminating `\0'.

     The mbmb() function locates the first occurrence of the null-terminated
     string pattern in the null-terminated string string.  If pattern is the
     empty string, mbmb() returns string; if pattern occurs nowhere in string,
     mbmb() returns NULL; otherwise mbmb() returns a pointer to the first
     character of the first occurrence of pattern.

RETURN VALUES
     The function mbrune() returns a pointer to the located character, or NULL
     if the character does not appear in the string.

     The mbrrune() function returns a pointer to the character, or NULL if the
     character does not appear in the string.

     The mbmb() function returns a pointer to the pattern, or NULL if the
     pattern does not appear in the string.

SEE ALSO
     rune(3), setlocale(3), euc(4), utf2(4), utf8(5)

HISTORY
     The mbrune(), mbrrune(), and mbmb() functions first appeared in Plan 9
     from Bell Labs as utfrune(), utfrrune(), and utfutf().

macOS 26.6                      April 19, 1994                      macOS 26.6
